# Sound Following Robot

For this project, we were tasked with making something of our group’s choice with some requirements provided to us. These requirements were to include at least two motors in a useful manner, implement at least 3 sensors for input and or machine operation, a minimum of 3 LEDs that report machine status, function practically, and use Arduino with non-trivial code. As a group, with these requirements, we decided to make a sound-following
robot.

# Back Ground Research

When doing research for this project, we focused on a couple of different things. We researched cost, power usage, output, size, and complexity between five different sound sensors as the criteria in our decision matrix. The decision matrix concluded that the best sound sensor to use was the KY-038. The KY-038 was the most cost-effective and power-efficient which weighed the heaviest among the categories given by our pairwise matrix. Further research was needed to determine what we needed to do and how to use the L298N motor controllers.

# Building and Testing

Our first tests were getting the motors to function, and that is where we learned that we couldn't drive the robots directly off the Arduino because the motors drew too much current, we could easily reverse the direction of the motors and couldn't easily adjust the speed of the motors. We eventually were able to get the motors working by using two H-bridges (L298N), one for each set of motors. Next, we tested the sound sensors, and we quickly learned that the analog output was nowhere near accurate enough to use how we originally planned. After considering other options, we decided to compromise and use the digital output of the sensor and manually adjust the sensitivity. After more testing, we ran into two more problems. Firstly, we found that the digital output was still not accurate enough for triangular distance due to the sensors not reading as quickly as we would have liked. Secondly, we realized we needed the time of “origin” of the sound, which we would not be able to get without a much more complicated circuit. This pushed us away from using time and trigonometry to locate the source of the sound, and we had to find a new method of determining location. We then decided to go based off of the order in which the sensors were activated and estimate the direction the sound came from. After we did the individual testing of the sensors, we were then able to put the motor, motor controllers, sound sensors, Arduino, and battery pack together. After fully assembling the robot, one final issue occurred. We accidentally created a feedback loop of the motors to the sound sensors. This was promptly fixed by adding a delay between the robot movement and the sound sensors being ready to activate.

# Demo Results

Despite the setback we had, we were able to demonstrate that the robot can detect sound through the multiple sound sensors, and identify which direction it came from, then move towards the direction of the sound. The result of our code was clean and readable and functioned as well as our hardware could. Everyone had a good understanding of how the robot and programming functioned. An improvement we could have to make is either adding more sensors to be able to identify the direction of the sound more accurately or installing better, more accurate sensors and triangulating the source of the sound. Another improvement is better frame and motor placement. The setup we created had a lot of turning resistance, meaning our turns could have been more accurate if we shorten the wheelbase and make the frame wider. Another option is to add a gyroscope, calculate the exact direction that the robot has turned, and make sure it is the same as the angle the sound came from. One more improvement we determined was changing the code or adding another sensor to account for misreadings due to echos. This would improve the accuracy of determining where a sound actually came from by accounting for cases where an echo is read as the sound.

# Overall Results

Our biggest problem came from the sound sensors not being accurate enough. When we tried using the analog output that the sensor provided, oftentimes, the output would be extremely noisy, and the output wouldn't always be the same. This means the sensor would output a signal that wouldn’t give a readable output consistently. Our solution was to use the digital output of the sensor, which was significantly more accurate but still not accurate enough for our original idea of triangulating direction. Our next problem was that the sensor wouldn't always output at the same time. To clarify, if we compare the time it takes for two sensors at different distances to detect sound, the output would change from test to test, even if the sound came from the exact same location. Fortunately, they were still accurate enough to identify the order in which the sensors detected the sound, so our solution was to move the robot in the direction of the first activated sensor.

Another problem we had was not being able to run the motors off the Arduino. Our original plan was to use transistors to turn them on and off, but the problem was we still could not turn the motors in two directions. This was solved when we found motor controllers that could be used to not only turn the motors in both directions, but also adjust the speeds at which the motors moved.
